In this section, we're going to write integration tests for the review service.
Recall that the review service makes requests to MongoDB,
so in order to test it,
we're going to use MockMvc to send requests to the review
service and leverage the MongoSpringExtension that we previously
build to pre-populate MongoDB before our test run and cleaned it
up when our tests complete.
From a coding perspective,
we're going to include both our MongoSpringExtension
and the standard SpringExtension.
We're going to use the SpringBootTest annotation to load
our full Spring application context.
And we're going to include the AutoConfigureMockMvc annotation
to tell Spring to create a MockMvc instance.
The MongoSpringExtension requires that we create a getMongoTemplate method,
so we'll include that method and return the
MongoTemplate that Spring autowires in for us.
Finally, our test methods will be annotated with the MongoDataFile annotation,
which specifies the source JSON file that the MongoSpringExtension
should use to populate our embedded MongoDB instance.
Let's review the source code for the
ReviewServiceIntegrationTest class and see how it works.
The ReviewServiceIntegrationTest is annotated with the
ExtendWith annotation and includes both the SpringExtension
and our MongoSpringExtension classes, as we discussed previously.
It's annotated with the SpringBootTest annotation,
as well as the AutoConfigureMockMvc annotation.
All of this is to say that the ReviewServiceIntegrationTest
will load the full Spring application context,
it will create a MockMvc instance for us,
and it'll set up and tear down our MongoDB data between test runs.
It has wired into it a MongoTemplate,
and our MongoSpringExtension requires that we provide a
getMongoTemplate method that returns our autowired MongoTemplate.
Our sample JSON file contains two reviews: The first with one user entry,
and the second with three user entries.
With our test class set up, the first test method is testGetReviewByIdFound.
This method is annotated with our MongoDataFile annotation,
which is configured to load the contents of the
sample.json file into review instances and persist them
to the reviews collection in MongoDB.
We use MockMvc to perform a GET request to /review/1,
which exists in our sample JSON file,
so we expect a 200 OK HTTP response code and a JSON response.
We validate that the ETAG is 1, since the version in the JSON file is 1,
and that the LOCATION is /review/1.
Finally,
we validate that the fields in the JSON response
match those in the sample JSON file.
The testGetReviewByIdNotFound method does the same thing,
but it uses MockMvc to perform a GET request to /review/99,
which doesn't exist in our sample JSON file,
so we validate that we receive a 404 Not Found HTTP response code.
The testCreateReview method creates a new review in the review service.
It begins by creating a new review instance and
adds a single entry to the review,
and then it uses MockMvc to perform a post request to /review,
passing a JSON representation of the new review as the body of the post,
and setting the content type to JSON.
We validate that we receive a 201 created HTTP
response code and a JSON response.
The interesting thing in this test case is that MongoDB
will generate a unique ID for the object,
which will look like a UUID so we cannot accurately
predict what it will be for out test.
Instead we do two things: First,
we execute the header's exists method to validate
that a location header is present, which will be /review/ some UUID,
but without actually checking the value.
And in our JSON body evaluation,
we test to see that there is an ID field that is any
String by using the any matcher.
This way we can validate that there's a location header and a
review ID without examining the actual value.
We validate that we receive an ETAG value and a version of 1.
Because this review is just created,
it will have its version automatically set to 1.
We validate that we received one review entry and that the
username and review match the review we created.
Finally, we validate that the date of the review entry is present,
but we match against any string because we cannot accurately predict the date.
The last method is testAddEntryToReview,
which adds a new entry to an existing review.
We create the new review entry and use MockMvc to
perform a post request to /review/1/entry,
with a JSON representation of a review entry as the body of the post,
and a JSON contentType.
We validate that we receive a 200 OK HTTP response code and
the correct ETAG and LOCATION headers.
Finally, we validate the returned fields,
specifically checking that there are two entries,
and then examining the values in those entries.
Again, we check for any string as the date in our new review entry.
This integration test looks a lot like the review controller test,
but instead of mocking the review service to return expected results,
we instead exercise the review service end to end from the controller all the way back to MongoDB.